---
layout: post
title:  "C++ keyword"
date:   2025-04-15 00:33:15 +0800
categories: [Lan]
excerpt: C++ keyword
tags:
  - keyword
  - C++
---


##### mutable

When you declare a member function as const, it means the function is not allowed to modify any member variables of the object (except those declared as `mutable`).

* `mutable` can only be applied to non-static and non-const data members.
* It is typically used for caches, reference counts, logging info, etc.
* `mutable` only affects const member functions or const objects; in non-const contexts, it behaves like a normal member.

##### noexcept

the `noexcept` keyword is used to specify whether a function is guaranteed not to throw exceptions. It is part of the exception specification system, introduced more formally in C++11 and enhanced in C++17 and beyond. If the compiler knows a function won't throw, it can generate more efficient code.

If a function marked `noexcept` does throw, `std::terminate()` is called.

**Usage**

```C++
void func1() noexcept;

// in conditional form
void func2() noexcept(noexcept(other_func()));
```

When a `std::vector` grows and needs to reallocate its storage (e.g., push_back or emplace_back), it must move or copy its elements to the new memory. If the element type has a move constructor that is noexcept, the `std::vector` will use it. If not, and only a copy constructor is available (it's safer), the `std::vector` will use the copy constructor instead.

Whether the default constructor generated by compiler is marked `noexcept` depends on whether moving all the members is noexcept.
